[Music]
why I'll bet your entrance door has a
reliable modern lock right after all you
care about your safety
but do you lock your gadget similarly
well remember that just one password
mishap can result in dishonest people
getting access to all of your accounts
here's my list of what to pay attention
to one the same password for all
accounts passwords tend to be forgotten
in my case on a regular basis that's why
it's much easier to have one password
for all your accounts this way chances
it'll slip your mind are very slim but
it's also a sure way to lose all your
accounts at once once a phishing email
which 97% of people can't recognize
captures your password all your
information will fall into the wrong
hands
too easy to find do you tend to write
your passwords on a post-it note or
stick them to your monitor or hide under
the keyboard well then sooner or later
someone else will also get hold of them
if you absolutely must write down your
passwords keep your notes in a secure
place where no one can get access to
this information or maybe you save your
passwords on your laptop or computer
then you probably haven't heard of
ransomware a rapidly developing kind of
malware criminals keep your data
unavailable to you until you pay them
and meanwhile scan your hard drive in
search of something resembling a
password list once it's found ransom
money is the smallest of your problems 3
ignoring bad news you should realize
that if one of your accounts is breached
it's just a matter of time until other
accounts protected by the same password
will be broken into as well take data
breach news seriously and immediately
change all your passwords
that's another pro of using different
passwords for different accounts with
the same password for a dozen apps and
sites you'll have to change passwords
for all of them if one of your accounts
gets exposed otherwise you just need to
change one for to short and simple the
shorter your password is
the easier it is to crack it sounds
obvious but many people still ignore
this crucial rule try to create a
password with no fewer than 12
characters including symbols numbers
uppercase and lowercase letters another
option is to use a passphrase instead of
a password a string of words or letters
for example Friday is a movie night is
harder to crack than a single word 5 -
personal never create a password based
on your personal data your relatives and
your pets names birth dates addresses
phone numbers won't make strong
passwords they have an important meaning
for you but other people are likely to
know this seemingly personal information
as well the same goes for your own first
middle or last name initials nickname or
any login ID by the way if you think
that adding some numbers to a name makes
it a good password you're in for a
disappointment
modern password crackers know this trick
and can cycle through common name and
number combinations for hours until they
hit the right one 6 sharing your
password even if you share your password
with the most trusted person and for the
most valid reasons your accounts are no
longer secure
however reliable and unique your
password is if another person stores it
in their email account secured by the
QWERTY password your data breach can
happen at any moment your password is
just for you to see and if you had to
share it change it right after there's
no more necessity 7 no special
characters adding as many numbers and
symbols to your password as possible is
an effective way to protect it this
makes your password unique and hard to
guess try to make it relatively simple
for you to remember and always put
numbers and symbols within your password
not at the end 8 impossible to remember
a long string of random characters looks
like a super secure password but it's
absolutely impossible to memorize such a
password and using it can turn into a
massive headache unable to remember all
this random stuff you're most likely to
write it on a piece of paper or
a planet where it can be discovered by
the wrong person 9 allowing your browser
to save passwords you wouldn't want your
browser to save your payment details
right but then why do you let prying
eyes see your password on your phone or
PC in some browsers if you haven't
enabled a master password any person
with physical access to the computer can
see your passwords in options show
passwords to be on the safe side
don't use browser save passwords all
together 10 slightly modify let's say
you get asked to change your password
because it's too old what will you do
there are high chances that you like
more than 90% of other users we'll just
add a symbol or a number to the already
existing password and that's a very
wrong thing to do password guessing
programs are too smart to fall for this
trick and they can crack your new
password within seconds 11 hard to type
the longer you enter your password
the easier it is for those around you to
figure it out opt for a password you can
type quickly without looking at the
keyboard it'll make the task of stealing
your password by observing you more
complicated if you use a passcode on
your phone or tablet make sure you
remove all the smudges on the screen a
smart thief can figure out the for
number code alarmingly fast if there are
obvious fingerprints in the same places
as your code 12 - easy to guess some
passwords are extremely predictable and
can be cracked within a few seconds
yep I'm talking about one two three four
five asdfghjkl and whatnot brand name
sports and pop culture references books
and movies won't pass as a secure
password either 13 using unreliable
password generators you're taking a risk
every time you rely on an online
password generating service if you
aren't a specialist you'll never
understand if the process is performed
in a safe way or not safe password
generation
is done by using the code within your
browser and this code never gets
transmitted to the server it's not a
great idea to use online password
generators such websites can be set up
to lure you to choose a seemingly strong
quality password which will later be
used by cyber criminals 14 never
changing passwords some experts
recommend changing all your passwords at
least once a year they admit that it can
be rather tedious and unnecessary if all
your numerous accounts have strong and
unique passwords but since more and more
services fall victim to cyber attacks
better safe than sorry
15 skipping two-factor authentication
if the two-factor authentication is
available for your account don't think
twice before using it then every time
you log into your account it demands a
second verification which makes access
to your data more difficult the second
authentication step can be a fingerprint
scan or a secret number sent to your
phone 16 using default passwords you get
a new login for example created by your
tech department along with the new
account you receive a default password
don't wait long before changing both the
login and the secure word you never know
who can get access to the default
information 17 not using password
managers if you've done your best and
now your passwords are incredibly hard
to remember try a secure password
storage service you can read feedbacks
online and choose the most suitable
password manager now you don't have to
memorize your passwords or write them
down hey if you learned something new
today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life